# ISS210FinalTemplate
Sophia Camilleri - 
OIP.zwovjwVwumHarcdSBBIaTQHaHa (208×234) (bing.com)
(ABOVE IS LINK TO MY IMAGE)
It would make sense that students feel like they are “dead” when they graduate from secondary education because of the cost. Even when factoring in inflation, the average family wages have gone down and the cost of secondary education has increased. This can make many students feel like they are hopeless - how can they be expected to invest in themselves when the investment will set them back in for the next couple of years, if not decades? Student loan debts act as a stressor that generally destabilizes one's mental health. Despite this, the American secondary education system is set up in such a way that loans are almost inevitable for the majority of the population. This leads me to wonder whether the system is genuinely neglectful or contributing purposefully. Regardless of this, the impact that egregious student loans have on the mental health of students cannot be ignored because it has such a widespread impact. With the way the system is set up, it would make sense that students would avoid furthering their education and pursuing their passions一why put themselves in the position to rack up hundreds of thousands worth of debt for a degree in a field that will pay them a fraction of that? Therefore, the American education system needs to become more accessible, if not free with government subsidization and debt forgiveness.
Anthony Fent - Main idea
It was the start of the semester, and like every other college student, I was full of anticipation and excitement of pursuing the college experience. I had chosen a college that was out of my budget and had taken out student loans to cover my tuition. The problem was how much I had borrowed, and even how I was going to repay it. For the first few weeks of school, I was able to ignore my debt and just focus on my studies. But soon the reality of my situation started to sink in. I was overwhelmed with the amount of money I had borrowed and the realization that I would be paying it back for years to come. The thought of having to repay my debt was always on my mind, and it made it hard to concentrate on my studies. I was constantly worried about how I was going to come up with the money to pay it back, and it was affecting my performance in the classroom.
Student debt is one of the biggest challenges college students have to face. It can have a serious impact on their lives, both present and future. The most obvious impact is financial, as student debt can be a huge burden to manage. It can also make it difficult to pursue further education or take career risks. As such, student debt can have a long-term negative impact on a student's life. To overcome student debt, individuals should look into available repayment options and consider consolidating their loans if possible. They can also look into refinancing and loan forgiveness programs. Additionally, students should consider ways to minimize their debt burden, such as cutting down on expenses, looking into scholarships, and other forms of financial aid.
Lindsay Tallman- Image 1
Image link: https://educationdata.org/wp-content/uploads/327/12-month-dropout-rates-among-fall-term-first-time-undergraduates2.webp
Article link: https://educationdata.org/college-dropout-rates 
Full time students have been at a steady drop out rate of 24 percent since 2016. Student debt has a major factor in drop out rates. Too many students begin their post-graduation careers riddled with college debt, more specifically due to the use of student credit cards. Credit cards are convenient and easy for students, but not enough are well-informed on the consequences of credit card misuse, and cannot make educational decisions. Sometimes it is hard for students to upkeep their credit cards because the interest rates keep increasing each year including annual fees. Because most college students don't work or have consistent jobs they can only make the minimum payment. Which means they carry over balances month after month. Eventually affecting their debt to income ratio. As students move through college, they gain more and more credit cards as well as credit card debt without considering the consequences. College students sometimes tend to use their credit cards as everyday purchases while they should be using it for emergencies. When you max out your card they don't only charge interest fees, and annual fees they also charge you an over limit fee. If you don’t make your payment the bank will then add an over limit fee. Many of these fees, and factors could cause not only student debt but credit card debt eventually messing up your credit score as the years pass. 
James Hoadley- Image
https://www.bing.com/images/search?view=detailV2&ccid=30mOMtsO&id=2795347247FD8DC662C55F03CCD6490D5E4A4252&thid=OIP.30mOMtsOh-9r3g20iN41kQHaEU&mediaurl=https%3A%2F%2Fthriftymommaramblings.com%2Fwp-content%2Fuploads%2F2017%2F08%2FFotolia_109459357_Subscription_Monthly_M.jpg&cdnurl=https%3A%2F%2Fth.bing.com%2Fth%2Fid%2FR.df498e32db0e87ef6bde0db488de3591%3Frik%3DUkJKXg1J1swDXw%26pid%3DImgRaw%26r%3D0&exph=1053&expw=1805&q=Student+debt&simid=607992852253733096&form=IRPRST&ck=7264D4476CD529578BE97C4F3072B85D&selectedindex=1&ajaxhist=0&ajaxserp=0&vt=0&sim=11

Students feel chained down by student debts because of the many mental and physical problems that it can cause. Student debt can cause physiological factors such as in areas of self control, delay of gratification, and an adverse opinion on loans in general. Adding to these issues is the effect that debt has on anxiety. Anxiety has been found to cause a decrease in financial well being and being anxious over money relates negatively to financial well being as well. These problems aren't just psychological either. Students with low level incomes and high financial burdens may partake in money saving measures which include not getting medical examinations and not eating meals which can cause long term damage to their health as well as their academics. These factors show that there must be a change in how the educational system is funded. All of the negative effects caused from having debt can deter students from pursuing the education they desire. If the educational system is not made more accessible then students will continue to feel chained down by debt as well as feel the adverse effects from it.

Savannah Frendo (video #do not change code)- <iframe width=560 height=349 src=https://player.cnbc.com/p/gZWlPC/cnbc_global?playertype=synd&byGuid=3000388647 frameborder=0 scrolling=no allowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen oallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen ></iframe>

https://www.cnbc.com/2015/06/15/the-high-economic-and-social-costs-of-student-loan-debt.html (link)

Student debt has dramatically increased as the value or viewpoint of receiving a higher education has increased. This increase in price for higher education can lead to multiple problems that students have to face after loans are taken out. Taking out loans has led to an increase in next generation mental illness. Due to the stress of student loans and the pressure to have higher education in order to advance your career, large amounts of student debt can lead to depression and anxiety. Mental health is important to career and academic success, but one’s goals may be hindered because they feel that their goals do not measure up to the importance of paying back student loans. Students will put high levels of pressure on them because they want to ensure that the money being put towards a university education will be worth it. So they will overwork themselves and prioritize school work over mental health. Students fear that attending a university will make them live their entire life in debt, which can cause massive amounts of stress in their lifetime that could have been avoided. There is also the dispute of student loans from a state funded university and private funded universities. Private universities are inherently more expensive as they are for profit universities but there has been an increase in attendance because there is more aid applied and they will receive the same education, at a lower price depending on aid. While private universities are willing to give more aid, if one does not fall into this category they will be in almost double the amount of debt than students who attend public universities. 

Matthew Hebert - 
https://heller.brandeis.edu/iere/pdfs/racial-wealth-equity/racial-wealth-gap/stallingdreams-how-student-debt-is-disrupting-lifechances.pdf

Student loans, an area designed to help fill the gap between secondary education and wealth, has now turned into a debt sentence for more and more borrowers. Many students of color are not receiving loans for secondary education, and even when they are granted, most students of color are charged with higher interest rates and take longer to pay off these loans. A study that was executed in the pdf stated,  “students starting college in 1995-1996 and followed for 20 years, 43 percent of White students did not have to take any student loans compared to just a quarter of Black students.” The study later concluded that the typical black student needing loans had to take an average of $3,000 more than their white peers. This study furthers discrimination to marginalized groups and in terms of student debt, this makes these students of color have to spend longer to pay off these debts which can lead to delays in purchases in their life such as a home or motor vehicle. The increased debt only sets students further back in their lives, when students take out loans to further their education and receive a more providing degree that can lead to a higher paying job. 


Ignas Bazanovas
The student's expression indicates that the burden of student debt is weighing heavily on them. The rising costs of higher education have left many students burdened with large amounts of debt, making it difficult to pursue their dreams and career goals.This photo serves as a reminder of the financial burden that can be placed on students, the graduate is having trouble staying on his feet due to the loan which can indicate that he not only has financial troubles but health problems too, which is natural due to the impact of the stress that student loans can have.Although student debt can be a daunting challenge, there are solutions available to help students manage and pay off their debt. To overcome student debt, students must create a budget or prioritize payments. Additionally, students can apply for scholarship opportunities, look for ways to cut costs, and work to pay off their debt as soon as possible. The picture symbolizes that the graduate is having trouble staying on his feet due to the loan which can indicate that he not only has financial troubles but health problems too, which is natural due to the impact of the stress that student loans can have. 
student-loan-saving-for-school-university-or-college-study-cost-concept-graduated-student.jpg
Savannah Fredo
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ByarIf31lfI. 
